## 2025-09

---
2025-09-04

### Calibre for converting ebook formats

This was a huge pain in the ass. 40+ minutes. Most of the time is spent figuring it out and configuring.
Once installed, a second ebook should be faster.

1) Buy book on kobo.com -- note: do not login with google, because you can't add password later
  (and thus you can never login via their desktop app etc)

2) Click to books, select book, click dot-dot-dot, click download.  It will download a tiny "key" file .acsm that can only be loaded in abode digital editions.

3) Install Adobe digital editions. This is also kinda a pain in the ass to find the link (app store doesn't work), but is freeware.

4) Double click the .acsm file. It will open in Adobe. Adobe will ask you to "authorize" -- no idea what that means.
  I chose authorize without an account. It churned for a while then said fine. At this point the epub is in **~/Documents/Digital Editions**

5) Install Calibre. At this point the ebook won't open in Calibre due to DRM.

6) Manually install plugin of DeDRM by downloading zip file from https://github.com/apprenticeharper/DeDRM\_tools/releases , then doing
  _Calibre -> Preferences -> Preferences -> plugins -> load plugin from file --> select zip file_

7) Restart Calibre so the plugin is fully loaded

8) Add Adobe Digital Editions key to Calibre: get back to the plugin, choose DeDRM --> customize. Then add keys. Then I pressed "+" and it auto found and loaded the ADE key.  I think the key manually exists in **~/Library/Application Support/Adobe/Digital Editions/activation.dat**

9) Then I could add the epub (file from step #4) to Calibre. I could double click it and actually read it. Good, that means calibre can see the doc.

10) Click Caliber icon for "Convert Books".  Choose epub and then ok (takes a few seconds).
   Then I repeated, choosing pdf and then ok (takes a few seconds).
   At this point the epub and pdf files are in `~/Calibre Library/<author>/<title>/`

