## 2025-11


---
2025-11-21

### SoCal Winter backpacking

* __CA Campfire Permit__ -- online, 4 minutes, watch video and answer 8 questions --
  auto generates pdf -- good til end of year --
  [link][ca-permit]

* __PCT near Whitewater__ -- day hike of PCT near Whitewater River. Large, good photos.
  Scrubland in this area.
  [link][pct-whitewater]

* __Outdoor Pilgrim__ blog -- seems kinda generic, but has some photos, and
  maybe worth perusing for trip reports
  [link][pilgrim]

* __Sand to Snow National Monument__ landing page --
  [link][sand-to-snow]

* __Sand to Snow BLM page__ --
  [link][sts-blm]

* __Sand to Snow NM Map__ -- coarse resolution, shows campsites --
  [link][sts-map]

* __San Bernardio NF - San Gorgonio page__ --
  [link][sangor]

* __My own 100 hikes__ -- has description of Whitewater Preserve / Rainbow Rock --
  [link][100hikes]

* (not Palm Springs area, but keeping for reference):
  __San Rafael (Los Padres) hikes__ -- summary of hikes with photos
  [link][los-padres]

[ca-permit]: https://permit.preventwildfiresca.org/
[pct-whitewater]: https://www.outoftheoffice4good.com/post/whitewater-reserve-pct-trail
[pilgrim]: https://outdoorpilgrim.com/winter-hiking-pct/
[sand-to-snow]: https://www.fs.usda.gov/visit/national-monuments/sand-to-snow-national-monument
[sts-blm]: https://www.blm.gov/programs/national-conservation-lands/california/sand-to-snow-national-monument
[sts-map]: https://www.blm.gov/sites/blm.gov/files/documents/files/CA_SandtoSnow_NM_geo.pdf
[sangor]: https://www.fs.usda.gov/r05/sanbernardino/wilderness/san-gorgonio-wilderness
[100hikes]: https://myown100hikes.blogspot.com/2015/01/hike-2015007-rainbow-rock-canyon.html

[los-padres]: https://www.hikelospadres.com/san-rafael-wilderness.html


### Misc

* __Larry Summers speech at Harvard__ -- "Let me just conclude by saying that I’ve given
  you my best guesses after a fair amount of reading the literature and a lot of talking to people.
  They may be all wrong. I will have served my purpose if I have provoked thought on this question
  and provoked the marshalling of evidence to contradict what I have said." --
  [link][summers] -- [local copy][summers-local]

[summers]: https://www.thecrimson.com/article/2005/2/18/full-transcript-president-summers-remarks-at/
[summers-local]: data-files/2025/11/summers-harvard.txt


---
2025-11-10


* Marcia Angell, chief editor of New England Journal of Medicine --
  __Drug Companies & Doctors: A Story of Corruption__ --
  The New York Review -- Jan 15, 2009 issue --
  [link to paywall][angell-paywall] --
  [link to archive][angell-archive] --
  [local copy][angell-local] --
> The problems I’ve discussed are not limited to psychiatry, although they reach their most florid
 form there. Similar conflicts of interest and biases exist in virtually every field of medicine,
 particularly those that rely heavily on drugs or devices. It is simply no longer possible to believe
 much of the clinical research that is published, or to rely on the judgment of trusted physicians
 or authoritative medical guidelines. I take no pleasure in this conclusion, which I reached slowly
 and reluctantly over my two decades as an editor of TheNew England Journal of Medicine.

[angell-paywall]: https://www.nybooks.com/articles/2009/01/15/drug-companies-doctorsa-story-of-corruption/
[angell-archive]: https://web.archive.org/web/20160503055102/https://www.nybooks.com/articles/2009/01/15/drug-companies-doctorsa-story-of-corruption/
[angell-local]: data-files/2025/11/angell-drugs.txt


* RFK interviewed by Tucker Carlson. June 2025.
  __RFK Jr. Provides an Update on His Mission to End Skyrocketing Autism and Declassifying Kennedy Files__
  86 minutes. --
  [link to video][rfk-tucker]

> [2:38] I think the major opposition that I feel is from the mainstream media
 and from Democrats, which is really... that is an interesting phenomena, because
 these were people that I was friends with my whole life. And, you know, I have not changed,
 and my values have not changed, and the policies that I've been advocating have
 not changed, but the party has just a knee jerk reaction against anything that is Trump.

> You know that President Trump's is in a really paradoxical position where he not only has
 completely taken over the Republican party and dictates its platform, but he's also
 dictating the platform for the Democratic party.

> I saw this for the first time on NAFTA. The Democrats were traditionally against NAFTA
 and as soon as Pres Trump came out against NAFTA, all the Democrats were now for NAFTA.
 The D were the anti-war party but as soon as he expresses opposition to the Ukraine war,
 they became the war party. The D traditionally were the biggest critics of the CIA and
 the intelligence agencies and as soon as President Trump began complaining about the
 power of the intelligence agencies in Washington, they became bonded with the intelligence
 agencies to the extent where they had for the first time in history a former CIA director
 speaking at their convention, immediately before Kamala Harris.

> They were the party of free speech and they became -- when President Trump started advocating
 for free speech, his ability to talk -- they shut down him on Twitter and these other really
 crazy efforts to suppress the speech of a former president. He became a major advocate of
 free speech, and the Democrats are now openly for censorship.

> The D party was the party of women's sports. My uncle wrote Title 9, making sure that women
 had the right to, had the equal access, the resources, that they could play sports.
 And the D party has become the party that is now the enemy of women's sports.
 And you can go on and on with those examples but President Trump is literally
 dictating the platform of the D party. Anything he says, they're going to be against.

 > That is also a departure from tradition. My father
  was very critical of partisanship. I remember him telling us when we were kids -- I don't
  vote for the D or R, I vote for the person who is best for the job -- and that partisanship
  by its nature is dishonest, and is the enemy of democracy.  In George Washington's farewell
  speech he said that; he is very frightened of the rise of the political party because they would
  become self-interested rather than patriotic.  They would become interested in promoting their
  own agendas rather than the agenda of the country, and he thought that was a real threat to
  American democracy and this great experiment that we have in democracy.
  [6:48]
  [...]

> [11:22]
 More importantly, we're going to make this data available to independent sceintists,
 so thath everybody can look at it. In fact we've already put out grant requestst to the general
 scientific community, so that any scientist  with credentials can apply for a grant and tell
 us how we're going to go about it.  So we're going to get real studies for the first time.
 [...]

> Q: [will answers differ from status quo understanding]?

> My opinion, I always tell people, is irrelevant. We need to stop trusting the experts.
 We were told at the beginning of covid: don't look at any data yourself, don't do any
 investigation yourself, just trust
 the experts. Trusting the experts is not a feature of science, it's not a feature of
 democracy; it's a feature of religion and it's a feature of totalitarianism.
 [...]

> [13:40]
 We're going to give peole gold standard science. We're going to publish our protocols
 in advance. We're going to tell people what we're doing. And then we're going to use data and
 we're going to publish
 the peer reviews, which is never published by CDC studies, we're going to publish any time that we
 can the raw data, and then we're going to require replication of every study, which never happens at NIH now.
 That's something new that we're bringing in: that every study will be replicated.

> Q: [isn't replication a basic precept of science]?

> That is a basic precept of science. And unfortunately the kind of science that was done
 at NIH -- you know, NIH was the gold standard agency when I was a kid -- but they stopped
 doing that. 
 And it incentivized a lot of cheating. And the reason it incentivizes cheating is that
 if you are a scientist, your career depends on how much you publish.  So if you have a hypothesis
 and you say, this is my hypothesis, this is the study that I want to do, and you get a grant from the
 NIH -- and the hypothesis turns out to be wrong -- the science does not support it -- a lot of time you cannot get that study published.
 That's science! A null hypothesis is science and it ought to be published.
 But the journals won't do it.  And also the journals won't publish anything that is critical of vaccines.
 They won't do it because there's so much pressure on them. 
 [...]

> [16:10]
 Even Marcia Angell, who is the long time, I think 25 years, at the NEJM, she says you can't believe
 anything that's in the scientific journals anymore.  Richard Horton, who's the long-time editor of
 the Lancet, says the same thing: we've become propaganda vessels for the pharmaceutical companies. 
 Now you have to pay to get something published in these journals.



[rfk-tucker]: https://tuckercarlson.com/tucker-show-rfk-jr-2025


